---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## CS + X


## Study Skills and Belonging
This week consisted of two introductory meetings to establish the goals of the study as well as a review of the materials collected thus far. Earlier in the spring, Dr. Gertner inteviewed 16 computer science undergraduate students about their study habits, resources utilized, course perceptions and self reflections on the discrete mathematics courses and these interviews were transcribed by a program utilizing artificial intelligence.

While follow-up and clarification questions differed from student to student depending ont their responses, the common core questions throughout were as follows:
1. What resources did you use to study?
2. How do you prepare for examlets and study? Is it different or similar to how you study for other classes?
3. Do you typically study alone or with others?
4. Do you use any outside resources to study (such as YouTube, another textbook, etc)?
5. When starting a problem, do you prefer to start right away to find a solution or do you plan out your response first?
6. Do you go to office hours, if so, how do you participate?
7. When you signed up for this course, did you think it would be interesting or boring?
8. Was this a course you thought you could do well in?
9. Do you feel like you belong in computer science, and did this course positively or negatively impact that sense of self?
10. What advice would you give to future students so they could do well in this course?

We realized that while the A.I. program was helpful in most of the interview transcriptions, it is not perfect at capturing the nuance of speech and some relevant University of Illinois vocabulary such as "examlets", which are the name of the online exams. I have begun to hand-correct these transcriptions by listening to the audio files and editing the transcription text. I am careful to make a copy of the text as to preserve the initial transcription in case we would like to reference it later.
